away on the news hour tonight
deadly floodwaters forced
evacuations
boat rescues and major road
closures we
get the latest from missouri
also ahead
how the iraqi ambassador sees
the fight
against dices as government
forces take
back a key city lost what's
shown on the
2008 silver spring Shack Ground
talks
about these here in movie really
legacy
filmmaking about legacy
journalism
because it really does sort of
marker
return to some very solid
fundamental
values of of narrative
filmmaking all
that and more on tonight's PBS
Newshour
along the Mississippi River and
major
tributaries has finally begun to
crest
in places today but for many
people
relief arrives too late
Townsend whole sections of
Missouri and
Illinois are underwater with at
least 20
dead untold millions of dollars
in
damage and it's not over yet the
scenes
of soaking wet destruction are
everywhere across southern
Missouri
homes flooded roads washed out
this is
devastating hear his father
hired the
past record and just told the
devastation the deluge turned
runways
into Ireland at this airport and
stranded small planes some of
the worst
damage is along this surging
Merrimack
River southwest of st. Louis
whole
neighborhoods are under water in
your
Rica where firefighters have
used boats
to rescue nearly 50 people there
since
Tuesday downstream the meramec
crashed
today near bally park at a
record 44
feet the water poured over a
wall of
sandbags at the town's waste
treatment
plant and raw sewage spilled out
at
third such incident in the
region this
week the overflowing river has
also shot
a huge stretch of Interstate 44
and a
three-mile span of interstate 55
was
closed early today triggering
backups
for miles
local engineers said they're
working
around the clock to restore
access what
we're waiting on right now is
going to
be the crest what their crust
occurs
sometime today that will know
that
that's the highest it's going to
be the
walls are going to hold and then
it will
be safe for us to pump all the
water out
of the interstate and open it up
to
traffic
meanwhile on the mississippi
river water
rose perilously close today to
spilling
over railroad bridges and
elevated
roadways in all Monroe northwest
to st.
Louis and in west alton homes
located
between the Mississippi and
Missouri
rivers were completely cut off
by
floodwaters that surrounded them
in
Illinois this city of Cairo is
caught
between flooding from the
Mississippi
and Ohio rivers to do some
public
operations to help us apart from
the
water that's in our storm surge
in
Sissonville published on about a
dozen
counties in Illinois at least
that many
in Missouri have been declared
disaster
area and the us- Army Corps of
Engineers
is closely watching levees
across the
two states water has stopped at
least
nine of the flood barriers so
far we all
hear from people on the ground
in the
flood zone right after the news
summary
this year's New Years Eve
brought
spectacular fireworks in cities
around
the world but nothing to rival
what
happened in Dubai fire broke out
in a
high-rise luxury hotel there
about two
hours before midnight it
engulfed at
least 20 stories of this sixty
three
story building and rained
flaming debris
down on the street the cause was
unknown
but officials said no one was
seriously
hurt and the city's New Years
fireworks
went off as planned even as the
hotel
continue to burn elsewhere
festivities
went off without a hitch
including in
Sydney Australia more than a
million
people watched by land and sea
as
fireworks display fireworks
displays
erupted from the Harbour Bridge
and
other landmarks tonight
celebration in
New York's Times Square is also
expected
to draw about a million people
watched
over by 6,000 police security is
happy
in other major cities as well
after the
terror attacks this year in
Paris and
Bangkok in Brussels Belgium New
Year
celebrations were canceled
increase
dismantled an outdoor stage over
continuing fears of another
attack and
in Paris authorities sought to
reassure
the public anymore yes
everything is
being done for the celebrations
to go
well but we have to say
extremely
vigilant the threats are still
here
there are still risks the
presence of
these forces across the country
shows
that we have to be extremely
vigilant
but that vigilance doesn't stop
us from
celebrating the New Year
meanwhile
prosecutors in brussels say
police have
arrested a temp suspect in
connection
with the Paris attacks the year
and it
with another deadly
confrontation in the
West Bank today israeli troops
shot and
killed a Palestinian man after
he rammed
a car into a group of soldiers
just sit
September 131 Palestinians have
been
killed in similar incidents and
israelis in Turkey president
raincheck
tie-up marijuana is vowing to
give no
corner to Kurdish militants in
government forces launched a new
campaign against the Kurdistan
Workers
Party in July as a two-year
cease-fire
fell apart and I want insisted
today he
will not relent league stadium
is our
security forces are stripping
away
terrorists inch by inch both
from the
mountains and from the cities
and they
will continue doing it
2013 a number of terrorists who
were
neutralized during operations
both
inside and outside the country
with
3,100 western allies have urged
to one's
government to concentrate more
on
Islamic state fighters appear
storm in
the North Sea has forced oil
companies
to evacuate drilling product
platforms
they're they're worried about a
possible
collision with a barge that tore
loose
from its moorings the storm
system is
the same one that's brought
widespread
flooding in britain over the
last week
back in this country three top
aides to
Republican presidential
candidate ben
Carson resigned today the
campaign
manager deputy manager and
communications director
that they are stepping down
immediately
they cited frustrations with
outside
advisers Carson was for a time
the GOP
front-runner but his poll
numbers have
since fallen Wall Street ended
the year
on a downer the Dow Jones
Industrial
Average lost nearly a hundred 80
points
closed at seventeen thousand 425
the
Nasdaq fell 58 points and the
S&P 500
dropped nineteen for the year
the Dow
was down 2 percent and the S&P
was down
a fraction of one percent but
the nasdaq
gained more than five and a half
percent
and the largest container ship
ever to
visit the us- entered San
Francisco Bay
today and it was a tight fit the
Benjamin Franklin passed under
the
Golden Gate Bridge with just
twenty feet
to spare the mega ship is
roughly a
quarter mile long and holds
18,000
shipping containers
still to come on the news hour
this New
Year's Eve missouri officials
respond to
widespread floods the iraqi
ambassadors
take on the fight against Isis
what a marshmallow test tells us
about
so the troll and much more
what a marshmallow test tells us
about
so the troll and much more
we start tonight with a closer
look at
the flooding in Missouri for
that I'm
joined by Cindy Erickson CEO of
the
American Red Cross of eastern
Missouri
which serves the city of st.
Louis and
62 surrounding counties an area
of more
than four million people and
Scott
Artemis a firefighter and
emergency
medical technician in Eureka a
town of
the Merrimack River that is
essentially
cut off by floodwaters Scott I
like to
start with you were talking to
you by
Skype nearby
assess the situation for us
tonight in
Eureka things are starting to
look more
positive rivers crested
yesterday we've
had water was originally very
slow to
recede but now it is rapidly
falling we
have working with local Chamber
of
Commerce City officials and some
other
partners were in doing damage
assessments
I know about 30 minutes ago or
so that
we have contingency a group of
people
that were walking from the
business see
where they stood as well as some
of the
homes of one of nine so that we
can get
the damage assessment process
well
underway and then from there
begin recovery efforts so you
talk about
the recovery efforts which are
now about
to start let's talk about the
rescue
efforts how expensive were they
what was
involved
starting really over the weekend
where
we had a lot of flash flooding
because
of torrential rains and historic
range
of experience here in the area
we did a
large number of you rescues in
that
earlier on a weekend as the
river rose
we began to get people that you
were
stranded or had stayed in their
their
properties in areas that the
there to
protect them or they would flood
we did
well over 50 rescues rescued
well over a
hundred people is also man
Wilson that
from those homes during the past
the
course of the past couple days
great credits you are
line function personnel or
firefighter
paramedics are on the line in a
range of
companies enables companies
they've been
working nonstop since the
weekend really
to have seen many people's lives
and
help help protect property in a
like and
what's truly been heroic efforts
and as
of tonight the roads are
potentially
still cut off access and egress
to
Eureka
interstate 44 I went on I W I
will still
cut off we're starting to see
some of
the roadways open up a portion
of
highway 109 open up south of
Eureka
which will give us access back
to a
large subdivision now there's
some 300
Paul Holmes it was cut off so I
think it
won't be long before we're
getting the
interstate open the MoDOT is
gonna have
some stuff it open but hopefully
we'll
get some path of travel into
roadways
out on the western or just rate
really
the past couple days and they're
not
signed in the traffic that they
have
been in so no doubt being the
Missouri
Department of Transportation and
the
Ericsson assessed
take us more broadly assess what
the
situation is now in the entire
region
right so the American Red Cross
first of
all our hearts just go out to
the
families who lost everything
this
holiday season the Red Cross
we've got a
number of shelters that we've
opened up
throughout Missouri as well as
in
Illinois providing residents
just with a
safe place to stay a warm place
we're
providing them with comfort kits
and and
meals and we've got a game area
44 kids
a lot of times when you're in a
disaster
situation
evacuating very quickly you
forget some
of the essential things that you
need
and so the Red Cross is there we
had a
family the other night that came
in an
older couple in the gentleman
actually didn't have his
dialysis for
that day and so R Red Cross
nurse was
able to help get him to that
life-sustaining treatment that
he needed
what is the biggest challenge
people who
are literally homeless driven
from their
homes
people who are in need of health
services are people who are just
bewildered about what happens
next
well you know what it's a little
bit
about all of that because unlike
flooding it's very different so
when you
have tornados the tornado comes
in it
hits and you know what the
disaster is
in flooding it's so different
because
you're waiting for the water to
recede
and your families a lot of
stress
because they're waiting to get
back into
their homes they can't yet
because it's
not safe or they're also waiting
that
possibly their homes could be
flooded
because they're in the flood
plain area
so it's just really a lot of
stress and
so they're red cross and are our
priority providing those basic
needs of
food shelter and clothing and
then as
was mentioned then that really
that next
step is starting to recovery in
the
quicker we can get people into
recovery
and to start to get back to that
normal
life that's when healing really
starts
to start to take place
me ask you and Scott bar as well
starting with you Cindy Erickson
how
does this compare to other
disasters in
terms of magnitude in this
region you
know what this is just been
incredible
you know many have compared it
to the 93
flood in for the American Red
Cross it
certainly is a huge disaster
because
it's just not in one area it's
in
multiple areas and so the red
cross I
mean we plan for disasters 365
days a
year 24 7 over ninety percent of
our
workforce are volunteers and so
we're
able to deploy at a moment's
notice so
to be able to stand up numerous
a dozen
shelters within a couple days is
pretty
remarkable of the community and
the
community's resilience got
bottom is how
does it compare for a small town
on a on a big river you know
what we've
been shot we actually are are
just
recovered 83 square miles so we
we
actually serve multiple
communities you
recall being the main city in
the center
of our history and it is there a
historic flooding in 1982 some
suggest
letting in 2008 but we have not
seen
devastation like this and I
think the
Red Cross saloon others that
this is the
fun event will come to an end
recovery effort will last for
weeks
maybe some people years and get
their
business is back up to where
they were
in their homes in the like I
might have
to believe you cuz I've got some
of the
things that are pending but we
do
appreciate you covering the
story and
and again you know I saw through
the
community as they stood up to
this is
where firefighters on the line
that had
done some incredible things in
the air
and Scott Barnes thank you very
much
done some incredible things in
the air
and Scott Barnes thank you very
much
Iraqi military forces backed by
USA
airpower retake a key city from
Isis
could this be a turning point
and does
represent a model going forward
for the
campaign against the militants
in Iraq
chief foreign affairs
correspondent
margaret Warner looks for
answers for
many civilians in Ramadi the
worst seems
finally over
family said to have spent months
as
human shields for Islamic state
fighters
are emerging your children fed
their
wounds bandage their elderly
cared for
they have harrowing tales to
tell of
their cap doors and praise for
their
Iraqi army liberators
that is all we saw many people
came upon
us
people that don't know the
meaning of
humanity less the soldiers who
rescued
us from this place from the
beasts Isis
militants seized Ramadi in May a
late
capstone to their 2014 sweet for
iraq
had captured more than a third
of the
country the Iraqi military
backed by do
with airstrikes and Shiite and
Sunni
militias had already scored
their first
major victory in March retaking
the city
of Tikrit 100 miles north of
Baghdad in
June they drove Isis out of the
oil rich
city of Beiji then last month
Kurdish fighters in the North
retook the
town of censure but the push for
Ramadi
took seven months and though the
city
centre fell on Monday soldiers
are still
removing bombs from the rubble
filled
city and searching for up to
seven
hundred militants were believed
to be
hiding in the area still
baghdad's
ambassador to Washington Luke
unfailing
told us yesterday it's a
milestone
retaking from idea is it
symbolic sense
that we are telling the world
that you
rocky army re taking the
initiative and
that ice is is will be kicked
out of
Iraq once and for all
how long will it take them to
clear the
city enough that the tens of
thousands
who fled the civilians will feel
comfortable returning it will
not be an
overnight way because that would
attract
the great deal to create when we
close
it that it took a few few weeks
just
make sure that some of the
places are
will be trusted have used
tremendous
using colored ones as well
that's
another issue we are dealing
with an
enemy who gather any rule of
engagement
just the same Prime Minister
Hyderabadi
visiting Ramadi this week vowed
to set
his sights on a far larger prize
in the
question Dr Isis known as
dilation
Arabic out of Iraq
we will raise the flag and purge
this
land from the last month the
Islamic
state we tell the people of
Mosul that
we are coming to liberate you
from day
ash and they will be defeated
and flee
as they were defeated in Ramadi
two hundred and fifty miles
north of
Baghdad had a population of two
million
before I just took it five times
the
size of Ramadi and the largest
city in
the militants control do you
think the
approach that you used in buying
your
forces with a lot of american
apparel
airpower is that enough of a
model to
Van retake mosul in Ramadi we
focused on
the local tribes
our counterterrorism forces and
strong
cooperation of the other sources
in
relation to the supremacy of the
air we
need to carry on with such a
model in
retaking of them however we also
have
the Kurdish partners of ours we
have the
tribe's we have local as well as
the
government and as well as
anybody would
like to contribute including the
allies
and really taking a liberating
of
partial that's the biggest
project
that's a much bigger project a
different
take come from Jim Jefferies us'
ambassador to Iraq from 2010 to
2012 he
says romani is a significant
victory but
not a guarantee of future
success to
what degree did the way Ramadi
was
retaken which was using the
Iraqi army
trained by the united states
backed up
by a lot of us' bombing offer a
model
for taking the much larger city
of Mosul
it offers a model with several
exceptions first of all in
run by province in Ramadi we
have a lot
of Sunni police Sunni members of
the
military and Sunni Arab tribes
fighting
along with us that is not going
to be
the case up in Mosul to the same
degree
Moses bigger Isis will fight
harder for
it
the USS gonna have to put a lot
more
ground forces and a lot more
firepower
on the scene in order to take
that down
anytime in the near future
ethical actually take american
quote
boots on the ground that is
combat boots
on the ground or trainers and
advisers
on the ground I think it'll take
both
trainers and advisers with the
units
were going into combat that
they've
trained in at least some
American what
we call maneuver battalions to
prime the
pump and get other people to
encourage
to take the same risks that our
troops
are taking president Obama has
said the
3500 us' forces in Iraq will
train and
advise Iraqi troops but have no
direct
combat role and in baghdad us'
army
colonel said this week that you
US air
power has been the key to iraqi
victories so far what's more
prime
minister a body has said he does
not
want us' combat troops on the
ground
again ambassador failing you
don't think
we need that we think it might
be easier
for us to say yes at this moment
but it
would cost more than the cost
political
regional and domestic tourists
and we
were very worried about that and
we're
very clear on the nuances of it
reclaiming the whole of Iraq
also hinges
on whether the country's
shiite-dominated government can
bring
together its rival ethnic groups
the
majority Shiites and Sunnis the
Kurds
and minorities like the Turkmen
and the
Christians to that point Barham
Saleh
Iraq's Kurdish former deputy
prime
minister tweeted this Tuesday
Ramadi
serious defeat to diache staging
for
liberating mosel all reversible
without
fundamental settlement to iraq
failing
political system
Jim Jeffries says it's critical
that
iraq's Shiite led government
heed that
warning people say one thing to
Prime
Minister body about what he
needs to do
if he can take this success in
multiplier I just will not
disappear
iraq will not remain united if
you
cannot find a way to reach out
to the
Sunni Arabs and Kurds anything
doesn't
take that advice this is going
to be a
long difficult struggle the end
of the
day we face the specter of a
Sunni Shia
cataclysm in the entire region
if we get
this one it's that serious at
this point
for his part and master failing
insisted
his government has gotten the
message we
already decentralized thing in a
lot of
issues we have already learned
we will
carry on doing that model that's
workable model porous but at the
same
time we need to be clear
everybody have
to pull their weights la also
argues
that a body facing a parliament
with
many uncompromising shiite
figures as a
political tightrope to walk he's
doing
his best is pulling all the
strings the
account is East has a sense of
urgency
in addressing this reform and
others as
well I think others need to
understand
that and I think they need to be
fair
enough what they are asking the
prime
minister to do in the meantime
there are
other battlefield tests ahead
retaking
Fallujah which lies between
Ramadi and
Baghdad
stay with us coming up on the
news hour
the best movies of 2015 possibly
that
Franklin's stunning performance
at the
Kennedy Center Honors proves why
the
queen of Saul says she'll never
retire
the first what kids can tell us
about
temptation and self-restraint
exactly
one year ago we began bringing
you
making sense stories every
thursday we
kicked off 2015 with economics
correspondent Paul Solman
exploring how
to feel your new year's
resolutions
tonight we thought it made sense
to take
another look really want to
learn how to
knit a better organized creative
scheduled for estimation and
really try
to focus a little more save more
money
actually gonna work harder and
harder to
do this so new year's
resolutions people
make them and just about as
often they
break why because they are
formulated in
a way that the general good
intentions
but it's not a plan if there's a
man
with a plan for leading us not
into
temptation its psychologist
Walter
Mischel author of the
marshmallow test
mastering self control and by
mastering
it working harder saving more
key
factors in economic success
the book is based on half a
century of
research by Michelle and others
began
with a simple experiment now
among the
most famous and replicated in
the
history of psychology as a
marksman you
can either wait and I'll bring
you back
not over do it now
Michelle ran this self control
experiment on some six hundred
and fifty
preschoolers at Stanford
University in
the late sixties and early
seventies
most gobbled up the puppy
confection but
one-third abstain long enough to
get
another delaying gratification
and even
the earliest ages has been shown
to
correlate powerfully all else
equal with
prosperity later in life
Michelle found that the
successful self
deniers have a pretty simple
strategy
which is they transform an
impossibly
difficult situation into a
relatively
easy one by distracting
themselves by
turning around by putting the
marshmellow farther away I can
do it by
exploring my nasal cavities in
my ear
canals and talking with the
product of
the fancy word for it now is
executive
control able to use my
prefrontal cortex
Mike cool brain not my heart
emotional
system I'm able to use my crew
brain in
order to have strategies that
allow me
to make this miserable effort
all
waiting effortless and easy or
not so
effortless and easy
I think some people find it much
easier
to exert control than others but
no
matter whether one is reasonably
good at
this overall a really bad at
this
overall it can be enormously
improved so
how to exert executive control
as an
adult
facing devices more inviting the
marshmellows when childish
distractions
may no longer work so if I have
a new
year's resolution to drink a
little less
than I do what I do why do you
need is a
plan that says at the end of the
day I
blog is the time that I am
likely to
have a drink I have to have a
substitute
activity at that time so there
will be
an alternative and it'll be very
very
practiced i mean to give you an
example
from my home
experienced chartered Moses
generally
irresistible for his control
strategy I
will order the hotel and that's
a
specific rehearsed plans so
before the
guy can tempt me with the most
I'm
already ordering the food
Salford and
just to be safe
the idea that the charge that
most
before it was brought out of the
restaurant kitchen may have had
a
cockroach happy little break the
standard first behavioral
economist Dean
Karlan has pioneered a different
approach to a fancy restaurant
with some
friends I know I've had my wine
when
there's a new console order
dessert even
if I swear I wasn't going to
offer an
alternative my friend and as
they will
find yes let's get the wine but
if I eat
dessert then I $1 carlin first
became
involved with such so-called
commitment
contracts in grad school
researching
them even making one with a
friend who
like arlen wanted to lose weight
and
keep it off the contractors for
$10,000
point was to make it for a lot
of money
that would be really really
painful to
write that track how much do I
lost 40
pounds growing out of that
experience
carlin co-founded a website
called stick
in part
for its distinctly 9 carat like
approach
to helping people reach their
goals if
you put monitors takes up then
you can
have it so that your money goes
to say a
friend who's gonna hold you
accountable
or one of the more popular
options of
the anti charity now the money
goes to
something that you hate the NRA
foundation is one of the most
popular
causes the people don't like and
use on
this site the National Rifle the
national deficit we also have
super PACs
both left and right and those
are very
popular because they can tackle
the
issues all in one bundle keep in
mind
that they would have to be some
reporting of the failure then
the money
goes to some truly odious cause
I mean
odious committees to you that's
a key
part and the other point that
also is
very popular in value very
effective for
people is not the monetary part
because
the public aspect of it so you
have to
admit that you failed on
Facebook or
Twitter but why do I resolutions
so
often fail because humans like
you and
me and Walter Mischel both of us
former
smokers temporarily discount
valuing
immediate rewards much more than
those
in the future so if it's not now
it's
essentially never because the
future for
example the cancer that I could
get if I
kept smoking is probably still
it's it's
distant we don't know for sure
and so it
might as well not be there
unless I do
something that makes the faraway
consequence immediate and David
Entz the
graphic warnings and canadian
cigarettes
a similar image fifty years ago
got
Michele three packs a day addict
to quit
practically cold turkey that's a
man
with metastasized lung cancer
and those
little green X marks of where
the
radiation caused that was the
beginning
of my ending my smoking because
the
image of me on a gurney he will
little
green X marks is very very
period and it
makes the distant probabilistic
consequence something that's
immediate
and now and changes the
cigarette from a
huge temptation to other small
dose of
poison in the end then the most
powerful
way
way to have control is by
transforming
what the stimulus means but of
course
everything follows from making
that
resolution in the first place
starts the conversation about
trying to
change something you have to
really want
to because you're taking that
late goal
to live longer to live healthier
to have
retirement funds when you need
them
rather than to not have them it
is what
we want and how we think about
what we
want that controls the regulates
what
we're able to do paul Solman
reporting
for the PBS Newshour from
hopefully the
land of self-control
have you seen any good movies
lately for
our end of the year review we
passed a
couple of film critics to ponder
just
that question
jeffrey Brown has our look for
our quick
walk through the year in films
were
joined by film critics and where
today
of the washington post and Mike
surgent
of Pacifica Radio and welcome to
both of
you not your top 10 or top five
we made
you pick one to start either
best or
favorite and you chose to
spotlight as
my number one movie of the year
well
full disclosure it happens to
feature my
boss I have to get that out of
the way
but even if it didn't even if I
didn't
happen to know one of the people
portrayed in this film I would
have
chosen it this is the story of
the
Boston Globe's investigation
into sexual
abuse within the Catholic Church
that
they did in 2001 2002 and is a
dramatization of the reportorial
process
is just an exquisite piece of
kind of
shoe leather journalism
filmmaking about
shoe leather journalism all
fashion and
what I've said in the past is
it's
really legacy filmmaking about
legacy
journalism because it really
does sort
of marker return to some very
solid
fundamental values of narrative
filmmaking ok we've got a short
clip of
that lets take a look
like that that's why the
reaction senior
there are others I think that's
the
bigger story the numbers clearly
indicate that there was a senior
so all
they do is start with fifty
pedophile
priests involved again to the
same
catfight you got into on Porter
which
made a lot of noise but change
things
not one bit
we need to focus on the
institution the
individual priests practice and
policy
show me the church manipulate
the system
so these guys would have to face
charges
show me they put those same
priests back
into parishes time and time
again show
me this was that it came from
the top
down
wonderful actors understated
film very
yes it's just a superb exercise
in
restraint on almost every level
written and directed by Tom
McCarthy who
is just a fantastic filmmaker
and just
his choices throughout this film
are at
spot on in terms of never really
put in
too much spin on the ball there
are no
kind of billboard scenes telling
the
audience how to seal is just a
very slow
burn very scrupulous Lee
restrained
ensemble piece and that's the
other
reason why I love it is it is a
true
ensemble piece redo see these
fantastic
actors really subsumed in their
own ego
and you know desire for the
spotlight
and working as a real team
sergeant so
you chose a very different kind
of film
writers sci-fi film ex machina
tell us
about it will take a look
well I told because of course I
love
genre films in this is does what
I think
best science fiction does where
it says
something that say about the
human
experience and there's a film
about it
inventor who creates essentially
an AI
in the form of a female robot
and it
stars Alicia vikander and Oscar
Isaac
and Domhnall Gleeson both da
mortgage
and and Oscar Isaac also in the
new Star
Wars movies well-adjusted
but it's a really really
interesting
study in human nature what it is
to be
human you know where do we draw
the line
and it's got fantastic
performances is a
film that not enough people so
as well I
think I let's take a quick look
at that
happened to me perfectly
do you think I might be switched
off
because I don't function as far
as i'm
supposed to
I don't know the answer to your
question
it's not up to me why is it up
to anyone
do you have people know what is
it to be
human rights who's the human use
the
robot is what is it to be
definitely end
you know one of the things I
loved about
it was it's it's it's a morality
play it
deals with the application of
women it's
just so many issues and tell me
things
it deals with the internet
things about
us being known that we don't
even
realize we're giving out
information
system really probably the most
one of
the most thoughtful piece i've
seen this
year
ok so I next category for both
of you
was best a great performance and
and you
picked on in in Brooklyn yes
indeed
let's look at a clip of that
first then
you can tell us about ok this is
her as
a young Irish woman falling for
tough
Italian kid
don't the Italians have done so
and I
wouldn't want to take you to 10
p.m.
like Italians on what does that
mean
too many of them just because
you know
where he lives and listen
I came to the Irish stands
because I'm
really like Irish girls and I
was the
only one who dumps it wasn't a
new actor
who you are or breakout I
performance
what would you do that well is
definitely a breakout
performance for
her I had seen her before she
was in Joe
Wright's movie atonement the
adaptation
of the novel I think that was
probably
the first time that she came to
my
attention I've been a fan ever
since but
this is just truly a
transcendent
performance for her as this
young Irish
women coming to America and it's
it's
similar to spotlight its really
very
restrained it's a little old
fashioned
it's not eg there's not an ounce
of
cynicism in it but there's also
not
announcing cheap sentiment in it
either
in the way that she holds the
camera and
hold the audience's attention as
this
young woman who's sort of
transforming
before our eyes from a young
country
girl to a woman of the city in
an
American and a woman of the
future it's
all there in her face I mean
it's an
extraordinary physical
performance you
became quiet films for us maybe
it's
just getting old like you chose
to you
judge Tom Hardy who was into
films right
to great performances legend
actually he
was in 33 growth ok well tell me
I know
legend in the revenue yeah ok he
was in
he was in the revenue but he was
also in
Mad Max which was also great fun
this
year
ok well let's start with that we
got a
little clip from legend and this
is
where he plays he's playing both
of the
famous criminal twins the Kray
brothers
you had a piece in mind you
actually
very much the big boy we're
talking
about any living I will talk
about be
gangsters walk which is what we
are you
one of these days from your
miserable
life will swallow you whole so
Mike tell
us about Tom Hardy you like him
well Tom
Hardy time artist and actor who
i think
is really kind of coming into
his own
he's got a lot of roles and we
first saw
him in Inception and he kind of
stole
the picture away from the United
capital
but this film like you said he
plays
both the Kray brothers one is a
soft-spoken kind of a gentleman
the
other one is a brutal you know
killer
one street and the other was
homosexual
it really creates two very
separate
characters you completely
believe that
there are just two people in the
world
and his accent there a lot of
times
where you almost can't
understand
because got such a thick accent
coming
from the part of England he did
but I
have to say his performances
it's just
it's mesmerizing and he's in a
very the
force of nature i think im
already and
he's he's going to be winning an
Oscar
sometime soon I want it we got
one more
category my collect you start
this one
this is the sort of under
appreciated in
the film you'd really like to
tell
people about that they really
should see
that they might have missed
while the
film I really like this and
again these
these are my taste so i cant say
that
it's a form of my favorite films
of the
year I don't know if it's the
best was
my favorite at the film I think
people
should see age of Adeline and it
stars
Blake Lively but about a woman
who
accidentally is given the
ability to not
age it's also got a great
performance
from Harrison Ford who I think
you
really sells it
this is a really really well
done films
the film that easily could have
fallen
apart many times before me kept
an
internal logic I cared about the
characters the performances were
great
knows every Blake Lively fan to
begin
with but I thought this was a
really
really good film and and what's
your
under-appreciated film of the
year my
underappreciated film is love
and mercy
it's a beautiful film about
Brian Wilson
Wilson of the Beach Boys indeed
and
whereas spotlight in Brooklyn
where
we're relatively straight ahead
kind of storytelling this one is
almost
experimental in nature Paul Dano
plays
Brian Wilson is a young man that
sounds
smile sessions era of his life
and then
John Cusack plays him as an
older man
and the two chapters of his life
kind of
talking back and forth and
Elizabeth
Banks just delivers a stunning
performance as well as the woman
who
would become legends wife
Melinda is
just a beautiful beautifully
filmed
movie and also I think one of
the best
movies ever made about the
creative
process and more to come for
2016 you
looking forward to that indeed
indeed
always do right and ordered a
mic
sergeant thank you both very
much thank
you thank you you can buy more
of the
News hours year film coverage
including
our look at spotlight and Jeff
conversation with Spike Lee that
pbs.org
/ newshour
franklin's the black-tie crowd
at the
38th annual Kennedy Center
Honors with
her tribute to honoree Carole
King her
rendition of the song writers
big hit
you make me feel like a natural
woman
which aired on CBS Tuesday night
moved
the president to tears and sent
the
Queen of Soul trending on social
media
the president to tears and sent
the
Queen of Soul trending on social
media
honored at the National Portrait
Gallery
here in washington we talked
about her
remarkable career and what you
plan to
do next here's a second look at
that
conversation legends designers
to heroes
from the world of sport and the
military
but it was the Queen of Soul who
got the
red carpet proud to their
added another prestigious honor
to her
there is only one Aretha
Franklin first
of America Award franklin's like
the
Washington museum and we weren't
overnight for me out of the
clouds on
the ground
overnight for me out of the
clouds on
the ground
year old Franklin has been
honored for
her jazz rock pop classical and
gospel
singing he's the birth female
and just
the fourth overall to place 100
career
titles on Billboard's Hot R&B
hip-hop
songs chart
Washington performing at three
lightings
inaugurations and white house
conference
he received the nation's highest
civilian honor the Presidential
Medal of
Freedom this latest honor
guarantees
that her image will live
alongside her
soundtrack National Portrait
Gallery
director Kim said Franklin was a
natural
choice this portrait of a raid
there is
a gateway I think straightaways
standing
in front of it I get a sense you
know
obviously she's singing hair
moment
there's a lot of color but also
her name
is built in capital letters at
the
bottom of this print aretha she
actually
probably is one of the very few
handful
of people in this country we
know
exactly by their first name
talking about she's a lesson for
all of
us and tenacious you know had a
dog
could determine this herself
which i
think many of us can admire
after her
performance at the gallery i sat
down
with Franklin who is seen
worldwide as
the diva the Queen consummate
entertainer next door nobody
thinks of
you that way and then if your
fans and
other people in that room
tonight as
much more than well-known be
able to see
me and that setting right yeah
so then
how do you handle the weight of
the
Deviousness of this all mean
there's a
little bit of that you have a
player
he's just a natural thing for me
and in
the span of a six-decade music
career
there was never anything else
she wanted
to do tell us part of you always
gonna
be reppin CEO franklin's
daughter
absolutely preachers kid to a PK
but I
don't think quite like you
we don't know ask about that
because
things that comes up with people
who are
immensely successful but what
they
choose is what brought about the
success
or who didn't stop you
well my mental was clear Award
finalist
award gospels Philadelphia and
my dad
was my coaching college degree
and just
my natural love for music is
what drove
me to you what keep watch of the
young
people who were you out there
and think
that person was the young me
when I
think wires the junior choir
each and
every one of those cases in
tonight to
you
devoted a lot of it to that
which I
think surprised some of the
unions do
you do that routinely no I just
to some
of the series earlier today and
I wasn't
happy with my opening song just
wasn't
what I wanted it to be been
parked I can
lift him up I said that that's
it that's
what I want to see
and I wouldn't reported
recent capstone to her career an
invitation to perform for Pope
Francis
when he visited Philadelphia she
jumped
at the chance it was wonderful
very very gracious man and did
you get
what you were bringing all about
the
word bomb
so when people hear musical
horizons
gospel in that no thats
digital music industry's
to really know and my dad do
that long
before I left home people really
don't
have to give you anything so
appreciate
what people give you and just
don't let
that go to your head whatever it
is
different or harder than it was
when you
were coming up
ecology it's a lot more
difficult now
because you've got a lot more
artists
particularly in hip-hop and rap
singers
and so on the competition is
extremely
high so you really ought to have
something going on Franklin
still has a
lot going on including upcoming
projects
with all France artist years now
but not
reported for decades
record no we haven't George
Benson and I
are gonna do some things
together a lot
of recording ideas will you ever
know
that's that wouldn't be good for
one
just to go somewhere and sit
down and do
nothing
please no thank you very much
for
talking
please no thank you very much
for
talking
just expired seventy years
mind calm will be legally
printed the
dictators home country germany
what's
the value of printing a book so
despite
we ask an expert from the USS
Holocaust
Memorial Museum said critical
commentary
can help people understand its
legacy of
hatred read more on that on our
homepage
pbs.org / news hour and that's
the news
hour tonight I when I will join
us
online and again here tomorrow
evening
with mark shields and Michael
Gerson and
here's wishing you a happy new
year from
judy and they and all of us here
at the
PBS Newshour